little concerned about the professionalism
about about your colleague uh... you know all
we're still in business to make money to make a
living and so a certain amount of competition is
good for everybody but some of the things that are
happening are are you know not very uh... i think
they're dragging us down in our own eyes even yeah
and that's the bad part what you're saying is we've
met the enemy and he is us it's not what the public
perceives us as much as it is what we perceive
ourselves Don't you think we've met the enemy and
he's us? Oh, yeah. No question. That's a good
point. I'm serious. There's no question about
that. But we had no course addressed to
jurisprudence. Well, we had one course. They had a
one-hour course, veterinary jurisprudence, and
it was neat. It gave you just a little smattering of
legality with veterinary medicine. We had
nothing. And they had nothing. Did you have
anything, Tom? No. When I came back here, he only
had a jurisprudence test. Oh, he just retired,
just died. Just died, yeah. Stewart. Judge
Stewart. In College Station. He was an attorney
that taught the one-hour veterinary
jurisprudence court. I'll tell you, students are
going to need it now. Oh, boy. And they are. It's a
different world out there. It really is. It really
is. Like I said, we were too busy working to be good
businessmen. You know, we did business courses
and jurisprudence courses and more. Well, and the
other thing that's happening in this whole thing,
the other thing that's happening in this whole
thing. Has been real helpful to us in animal
control. He comes and gives us, yeah, he's done a
lot. Oh, he has a manuscript about like this of
different cases that have come up involving
animals, crime, and so forth. No, I'm just sitting
here thinking, you know, about 12 of the
veterinarians that were here when we first came.
Only three of them are even here, or even alive.
Well, there was Wharton, there was Walt Lawrence,
there was Al Nagel, Charlie Neal, Richard
Culpepper, R.D. Brown, Gerald Parker, Harry
Fladigal, Ray, Johnny McCannish, Pinky Houser,
Charlie Neal. And all that's left is Al. R.D.,
Gerald, you and me. You know that R.D. and Gerald
are both in the hospital. Are they really? R.D. and
Gerald, both? R.D.' 's just getting his diabetes
stabilized. They've been there over a week,
though. And Gerald, they rushed him in the middle
of the morning, in the wee hours. He passed out
completely. They think it's enough. That's
right. Well, no, Jim came after him. Where was Jim
Saunders? No, he graduated. He graduated in 41.
Yeah, he was. Was he in San Antonio? Was he in San
Antonio at that time? He came in 56. See, that's the
reason. You know, one of the other things that is
happening today that has affected me in a case is
that veterinarians now, a lot of the younger
veterinarians they're getting out, And again, in
their zeal, I think, probably to be successful,
are not using the wisdom that they should use about
commenting on other veterinarians' treatments.
And I had somebody that said something to a client
of mine. I've been through a hearing for the state
board. I'm still probably going to end up in a
malpractice suit. The board has fouled me. And
it's because these people talked to some
veterinarian somewhere that said something,
took it out of context, and made an open comment
about something without knowing the whole story.
And this guy, even though the state board has told
him that I didn't do anything wrong medically or
otherwise, he's still convinced I killed his cat,
you know, because of what some other veterinarian
said. And, boy, that just never happened. It used
to happen at all. It never did in the past. But it's
going to happen in more and more frequency. Oh, it
has happened. I think that we need to be more aware
of our fellow. I've always adopted the idea and
lived with the fact that if I'm a liar, I'm
reminding myself. That's right. My dad told me a
long time ago, if you can't point one finger,
somebody else will point three at you. Well, it's
changed like everything's changed. No, it
hasn't. No, people have. People have changed.
Yeah. Individual priorities and so on.
Responsibilities. Ethics. Well, okay. But we
have the same thing in a classic example is what we
have over there in animal control. Complete lack
of owner responsibility. Yeah. Guy comes in, he
says, I want to post bail for my dog. Which dog is
yours? They bring it down. Is your dog vaccinated?
No. No. Well, law, state law, city ordinance says
it has to be vaccinated. Was your dog in his own
yard? Well, no, you picked him up in the street. And
then it's my fault? I know. He gets really hostile.
I say, you know, you really need to put a tag on this
animal or tattoo him or something because I've
been here almost 14 years and I've never had a dog or
a cat give me his own phone. I'm serious. And we need
to tell our clients this. No, when we came back,
when we took state boards. I never thought about
it. You've made me feel older now. Rabies was an
everyday occurrence. Yeah, right. That's true.
Oh, we had tremendous rabies here. Oh, yeah, it
really was. That's right. When I came here in 57,
this was the rabies capital of the world. But this
was in domestic animals, wasn't it? It was dogs and
cats. That's right. But now it's in skunks, bats,
foxes, raccoons, very little in dogs. I mean we've
come full circle there again. It seems to be going
back because you're seeing more domestic animals
coming out now. And also we're immunizing fewer
and fewer, a smaller percentage of our pet
population. You know, I think historically
that's as public awareness drops and the threat
drops. It's happened with measles in kids. Yeah,
that's right. Then the number of unvaccinated
animals goes up and you get a susceptible
population and then the scare comes. The polio in
the same way. Yeah. Yeah, it's cycling. And these
things should be a thing of the past. Hooping
coughs should be a thing of the past. Diphtheria
should be a thing of the past. Yeah, but they won't
be. It makes me wonder, you know, are we going to
have smallpox again? How many of these immigrants
coming in here? What in the world are they bringing
in? I know, it makes me shudder. I've been writing
my congressman since I came from Mexico about it.
some of these things. It's going to fall on deaf
ears. We're going to bring all the Salvadorans in
here. I mean, they need help, and we can take care of
them. They ought to be trying for trees. Well, I'm
taking a lot of your time, but let me give you each
one, if you like, a last opportunity to comment.
Well, I was going to tell you what all I had done. You
got married, of course, had a litter of kids. I was
in small animal practice from about 48 to 75.
That's small animal surgery, dentistry, the
whole nine yards. We had a Newcastle disease
outbreak about that time, if you recall. And it
just wiped out the chicken population around.
When about 61, 62, somewhere around in there, got
involved in pigeons. My dad used to fly pigeons.
and made contact with a friend of his. They flew
pigeons together before either one of them was
married. And so I kind of allied myself with him. He
was, well, Eddie Hemsworth and Pat Zachary. Got to
working a lot with pigeon parasites. The foremost
of which was his Tetrameres Americana, which just
wipes them out. When birds are called upon to
really race a long, hard race, they just can't cut
it, because their glandular stomach, their
polentriculus, just looks like it's been shot
with a shotgun, with these little encased females
that burrow into the... And they do lay eggs, and
you can demonstrate them on fecals. And so I was
doing a lot of this because these guys were
bringing in birds, paying maybe $500, $1,000 a
bird. I saw some, yeah. Did this also lead to other
cage birds? Well, I did a lot of surgery on birds and
did a lot of sterility work on birds. These guys
would say, you know, well... They'd bring me this
hen. This hen feels like she's normal. Oh, she lays
eggs, but they don't hatch. Hey, mister, you're
going after the wrong bird. Let's check, you know.
And I used my little hormonal situation. And I was
known as rejuvenating all these old birds. I mean,
just enough to get maybe six or eight youngsters
out of them. And man, then they're happy.
Well.
Did that sustain the pigeon work? Was that a
sustained practice? It was over a long period of
time, yeah, until, well, about 1975. Well, I was
still doing it when I went to work for the city, but
not on the biggest scale, because you have to train
these birds constantly and drive them. But I'd
worked with Leon Whitney, who was another Auburn
graduate. He had the Huskins Van Rails up in
Orange, Connecticut. And he and I had done some
work together. I mean, I'd done some
consultantships and gone and talked to various
pigeon groups in
South Carolina and also here in California,
outside of Ventura. And then when I got involved in
animal control, and by the way, animal control
veterinarians are still somewhat of an oddity.
Don't find too many of them. Well, with the advent
of a lot of the humane laws and stuff like that,
they're becoming a little more common today than
they used to be. Well, I have a couple of them in
Houston.
They have an animal control veterinarian in
Dallas. However, he's not administrating.
Yeah. I guess Ed Beckham out of Dallas And, uh, Will
Builderback wasn't, um, Lee Hutchison from El
Paso. Bob Ward, who was from Houston. Same thing
in, in research with the, with the humane laws and
stuff like that. Now there's, you know, you,
that's the reason I'm still a consultant
attorney. They have very few animals down there,
but they do use a few in teaching and research, and
so they have to have a veterinarian on there. on
their animal control committee or their animal
committee. Or they can't get any teaching,
national NIH teaching funds or research funds or
anything. I'll tell you where we need a
veterinarian. Excuse me. Go ahead. Well, I've had
a lot to do with parks and wildlife. I've been on a
trip with them to Baja, Mexico eight or nine years
ago to capture some desert bighorn. We shot them
with a helicopter. Somebody just pulled another
boo-boo up there. director it seemed like for some
of these wealthy gentlemen. They just had 40 sheep
or something put on a ranch and 39 of them died. And
Gibb Lewis is the Speaker's ranch, yeah. Those
people who make the decisions are usually the guy
up here and he doesn't even consult because I went
to Baja with him and I talked to, I was one of the two
that were not represented and the governor
appoints them. It's too much politics instead of
efficiency and animal husbandry and veterinary
medicine. It's sad when you see the results. Yeah,
Parks and Wildlife really should have a
veterinary consultant. They should have a
full-time veterinary. Or a consultant, at least,
to the department. Well, to cover their
backsides. I wrote them. We had a thing from New
Mexico. They had done the same thing Texas did
years ago. And I told them, I said, you're going to
Mexico. I had lived in Mexico. And they wouldn't
listen. And they wouldn't listen to their field
then. We lost... I told them you'd be lucky to get
back with half of them. You're going to stress
them. We got back with about half of them. Now, this
is another example of poor consultation or
somebody that they should have listened to. And
some of their own staff even told them. I don't
understand that. They need someone all the time to
put on that board. They should have one. Yeah. I
talked to Silber and wrote... At least in a
consulting capacity. Here a few years ago, and the
director wrote me a letter, and it was very nice
about it. But still, they don't have a man to
consult with on everything. I mean, you get some
variety, some versatility, you get more
efficiency. You've got to have a veteran out
there. They have, what's his name, an A&M? A
parasitologist that used to do a lot of work for
parts of my life. Grimes? Burley. No,
since I've been in animal control, I've, of
course, in the state association and also in the
national association, served on executive
boards and this, this, and this. The
veterinarians that are involved in that do not
accept any elected position except in an advisory
capacity for obvious reasons. That's where I met
Ed Beckham and some of the others. But I've served
as a consultant to the UN Development Program of
PAHO and, well, Pan American Health
Organization, World Health Organization down in
Barbados with the Ministry of Health down there.
I've been down there four times. Designed their
euthanasia equipment. Went back to check on it and
then went back four years ago on this to evaluate
the overall program again. What is their problem?
Cats, dogs? Loose dogs. Incidentally, I don't
know if any of you know, but you might want to
support Hawaii in the Humane Society, Hawaiian
Humane. Some veterinarian over there didn't like
the idea of having to quarantine a dog for four
months, and they're attempting to rescind that
law. I know the state veterinarian, but while
you're there, a little personal, there's a cow in
the lung. Is that him? He's a state governor. He's
active in the A's. No, this is a woman who took her
dog and didn't want to leave the quarantine. But
she tried challenging it in the court system?
Yeah, has gone to pass or has presented a bill to
rescind the quarantine. Oh, in the state
legislature. In the state of Hawaii, yeah.
Because that would be suicide, for God's sake. I
mean, can you imagine if they ever got rapists in
the mongoose? Yeah. I mean, they're such
wonderful little animals in the first place. No,
but Barbados had a problem with dogs, just loose
dogs. The same as, hey, it's international, the
irresponsible pet owner. I mean, the dogs that are
running loose are not strays. They're owned,
unvaccinated, free-roaming dogs. I mean,
they've proven that. These dogs will jump up on a
55-gallon drum and jump and jump until they tip it
over, and then screw the garbage. And, of course,
then you have rats. So we were down there on dog
control and rat eradication. That's where I met
Rex
from UCAL Davis, Rex Marsh. And that's another
Rex, UCAL Davis. All I see, we do a consultant work
in animal control, go to various cities and
troubleshoot their euthanasia units and stuff.
We try awfully hard to acquaint people with the
problem. I mean, PTAs, Rotary Club, Optimist
Club, the TVMA. Tim Long had one of our ACOs down at
the convention center when we had the conference
here several years ago. All our ammo control
officers in San Antonio are now currently
certified by the state as basic ammo control
officers, some of them in advanced and some of them
in the administrative capacity, and some of them
actually in the instructions. At lunch with
Catherine Tull, that's why we turned on to this
ammo control bit again. So what we're trying to do
is teach kids the responsibility. I'm giving up on
the adults. I mean, people our age know what the
problem is. They don't have any experience with
animals. That's right. They get an animal because
the kid pitches it in the mall and they see these
precious little puppies. Okay, we get a little
puppy and we take it home. Forget about the
responsibility. Well, you know, the Humane
Movement has missed the boat for all the years it's
been in existence. You know, they've tried to deal
with a problem that was beyond their capability. I
figure you just look at it locally, nationally,
and have not attacked the problem from the
standpoint of humane education, starting with
the kids. And that's where it has to start. You
know, they've spent millions and millions of
dollars trying to find homes for 20% of the dogs and
cats that are homeless. Instead of educating
children to try to develop curricula that could be
part of every school's curriculum in these kids
and develop a humane education. Well, you know, a
pet is a special friend. If they'd done that 25
years ago, we wouldn't have the problem we have
today, certainly on the magnitude of it. I mean, I
think we've reached a state of apathy. And the next
step is back into bondage. We live in a disposable
society. I keep saying we don't make commitments
to ourselves. If we did, we'd take better care of
our bodies. We wouldn't be overweight, drunk,
smoking, all this stuff. We don't make
commitments to our spouses or to our children. Why
wouldn't we make a commitment to an animal? You're
right. That's a good point. I got a baby bird that
had my office a little... One week old African gray
parrot that has to be fed. We deal an awful lot with
zoonoses. Boy, you've got to get his 4 o'clock
feeding. I mean, I laugh at everything. You're
cold today, aren't you? Yeah, I've got to take him
home with me tonight. Everything from Lyme
disease to Giardia. Oh, you did. I resurrected him
from the dead this morning, so I don't want him to
die. Enjoyed it. It was kind of fun sitting around
and talking about it all. That's why you up there in
Pennsylvania, you've got some Amish plants. My
oldest boy is a veteran in Pennsylvania. And he
gets so mad because they won't treat him anymore on
Sunday. And some of them have got to have treatment
on Sunday. I know some veterinarians about that.
Good to see you, Tom. See you later.
Oh, goodness.
That's a good point about the homeless animal was
not the point. See if I can get a copy of that article
that, what was it, Hutton did in the Express last
July. on animal control. Yeah, if you can throw it
up bits and pieces that I can get from you, that
would really be helpful. Because the
conversation is very good. Documentation is, of
course, going to help a lot. Yeah. But that's the
basic, you know, we want everything, but they
don't want the responsibility. That is true in so
many things nowadays. Anyhow, if you ever get
fecal contamination and get a Giardia infection,
get some medication fast. Bill McCulloch got it
from the shelter up there, Brazos County Animal
Shelter. He's over there, he's anitizing dogs. We
walk in the kennel in the morning, you know, and
they hit the fence like this, and they puddled and
spilled their water and defecated in it, and they
hit like this, you know, and you're giving it this,
and your glasses. Well, I ended up with Giardia,
and I trained myself for about a week. Don't do it. I
finally went to the doctor. He won't put me in the
hospital.
We did some work with the screw worm problem when we
had animals come in to the facility. Every once in a
while I'd run into one that was screw worm
positive. I sent Bucuzum down to mission and I sent
a lot of ticks to the lab in Austin and we know that
the Lyme disease organism is present in our derma
center and Reprocephalus sanguineus, our good
old And then the Lone Star, too, we've identified.
There's going to be a Lyme conference for the
benefit of anybody who's interested in Austin in
May, 4 and 5. That's something that's really right
on the leading edge of concern right now, the Lyme.
Well, Wiley Tanner, public health veterinarian,
was in Austin out of Arlington, had it several
years ago. He's retired now and moved to Colorado.
And I've had this, I guess, for five years now. To
the point now that this eye has deteriorated. I
mean, it just doesn't work by itself. Is that from
Lyme disease? Apparently, that's what Dr.
Schwarting said the other day. And my husband's
pushing me to retire. I don't know what's down the
road for me with this mess, you know? Are there
other cases? You know, this is another whole area
of... veterinary, you know, the animal bond
relationship. That is the transmission of
disease that people are not aware of. Other than
rabies, things like that, we know now. Well, you
try to tell them about T. canis in children, and
they look like you're, you know, they're out of
your mind. And yet, out at the medical school,
pediatrics will tell you, yeah, we got a problem.
And the physicians and the veterinarians, no, we
don't have problems. It's a problem with that more
than we do. I mean, these little blind kids that run
around, I have a great niece that I'm sure they
removed her eyes, thought she had
retinoblastoma. I don't think she had
retinoblastoma at all. She ditched that problem
with the other eye. I think she had ticanus,
visceral larval migraines. And hey, down on the
beach, that's one of the big things in Barbados,
because they're telling them, Well, you just bury
it on the beach. You don't bury it on the beach. You
just keep bringing it back to you. And
the salt water doesn't do a darn thing.
Well, I think that's about all my notes that I've
put down. If there's notes that are available,
I'll take the notes, too. You want these? Yeah. Can
I have them? Yeah. Oh, I had a poem. Do you remember
that poem, The Piddling Pup? that Dr. Morney had on
his stationery. Well, I like the title. Well, it
goes on about 10, 12 verses and ends up with Rump had
diabetes. Let me have your address. Do you have a
card? No, I don't have a card. Let me just... I'll
tell you, Dr. McCammish had a little thing. I think
it was the creed of the doctor. And John's daddy was
a physician. Mm-hmm. And... I wish every
veterinarian had that where he'd see it once in a
while. You know, it states that, you know, your
clients are your livelihood, and if they weren't
for them, you wouldn't have any income or this and
that. And it makes a lot of people stop and think
that they're all going too fast, you know. I used to
go in Johnny's place once in a while and always read
that, you know. Everybody ought to read that.